**1\. Environment Configuration**

**Dependencies Installed from package.json:**

| Dependency | Version |
| ----- | ----- |
| @nomicfoundation/hardhat-ignition | ^3.0.3 |
| @nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox-mocha-ethers | ^3.0.0 |
| @types/chai | ^4.3.20 |
| @types/chai-as-promised | ^8.0.2 |
| @types/mocha | ^10.0.10 |
| @types/node | ^22.18.12 |
| chai | ^5.3.3 |
| ethers | ^6.15.0 |
| forge-std |  github:foundry-rs/forge-std\#v1.9.4  |
| hardhat | ^3.0.9 |
| mocha | ^11.7.4 |
| typescript | \~5.8.0 |

**What is hardhat and why do we use it for smart contract development?:**

* Hardhat is a development environment used to build, test and deploy Ethereum based smart contracts.  
* It simplifies the process of compiling contracts (written in Solidity), deploying them to a local blockchain, running tests and debugging errors.  
* Hardhat provides a built-in local Ethereum Network (called Hardhat Network).   
* It compiles Solidity code and lets you deploy contracts easily using JavaScript and TypeScript scripts.  
* Mocha and Chai allow developers to write tests for their Smart Contracts.

**2\. Understanding the Setup**

**What files were automatically generated by Hardhat?**

* [hardhat.config.ts](http://hardhat.config.ts): Typescript file used for configuration.  
* Contracts Folder: Contains sample Solidity contracts, which is Counter.sol in my case. It also includes Counter.t.sol which contains tests to check whether Counter.sol is working correctly.  
* The node modules folder was not automatically generated by hardhat. It is automatically created when you run npm install. It stores all the packages your project depends on, including Hardhat and its plugins. It is the folder where dependencies are installed.  
* Ignition Folder: Used to declaratively deploy smart contracts.  
* Scripts Folder: Contains sample script to deploy contracts to a local Hardhat Network. In my folder, it is send-op-tx.ts.  
* Test Folder: Contains sample tests for the sample contract. In my folder, it is [counter.ts](http://counter.ts).  
* package.json: Contains dependencies which are specified above. A dependency is a library or a package that your project needs to work. It basically means that your project’s final output is dependent on these dependencies to run.  
* package-lock.json: Tracks exact version of installed packages.   
* [ReadMe.md](http://ReadMe.md): There is also a [ReadMe.md](http://ReadMe.md) giving a brief description of the workflow of how to use hardhat.

**What is hardhat.config.ts used for?:**

* [hardhat.config.ts](http://hardhat.config.ts) is the main configuration file for the Hardhat project.  
* It specifies the compiler settings, helps define networks, adds plugins, stores sensitive information like private keys and can be used to set paths for custom folders if needed.